src/main/docs/guide/applicationProfile.adoc, before:


You can optionally specify a http://docs.grails.org/latest/guide/profiles.html[Profile] for your Grails app. Profiles are available for many common application types, including `rest-api`, `angular`, `react`, and others, and you can even create your own.

To view of a list of what profiles are available, use the http://docs.grails.org/latest/ref/Command%20Line/list-profiles.html[`list-profiles`] command.

[source, bash]
----
$ grails list-profiles

| Available Profiles
--------------------
* angular - A profile for creating applications using AngularJS
* rest-api - Profile for REST API applications
* base - The base profile extended by other profiles
* angular2 - A profile for creating Grails applications with Angular 2
* plugin - Profile for plugins designed to work across all profiles
* profile - A profile for creating new Grails profiles
* react - A profile for creating Grails applications with a React frontend
* rest-api-plugin - Profile for REST API plugins
* web - Profile for Web applications
* web-plugin - Profile for Plugins designed for Web applications
* webpack - A profile for creating applications with node-based frontends using webpack
----

To use a profile, specify its name preceded by the `-profile` flag:

[source, bash]
----
grails create-app myApp -profile rest-api
----

You may optionally specify a package and version (defaults to `org.grails.profiles` and the current version of the profile)

[source, bash]
----
grails create-app myApp -profile org.grails.profiles:react:1.0.2
----

To get detailed information about a profile use the http://docs.grails.org/latest/ref/Command%20Line/profile-info.html[`profile-info`] command.

[source, bash]
----
$ grails profile-info plugin

Profile: plugin
--------------------
Profile for plugins designed to work across all profiles

Provided Commands:
--------------------
| Error Error occurred loading commands: grails.dev.commands.ApplicationContextCommandRegistry (Use --stacktrace to see the full trace)
| Error Error occurred loading commands: grails.dev.commands.ApplicationContextCommandRegistry (Use --stacktrace to see the full trace)
* package-plugin - Packages the plugin into a JAR file
* publish-plugin - Publishes the plugin to the Grails central repository
* help - Prints help information for a specific command
* open - Opens a file in the project
* gradle - Allows running of Gradle tasks
* clean - Cleans a Grails application's compiled sources
* compile - Compiles a Grails application
* create-command - Creates an Application Command
* create-domain-class - Creates a Domain Class
* create-service - Creates a Service
* create-unit-test - Creates a unit test
* install - Installs a Grails application or plugin into the local Maven cache
* assemble - Creates a JAR or WAR archive for production deployment
* bug-report - Creates a zip file that can be attached to issue reports for the current project
* console - Runs the Grails interactive console
* create-script - Creates a Grails script
* dependency-report - Prints out the Grails application's dependencies
* list-plugins - Lists available plugins from the Plugin Repository
* plugin-info - Prints information about the given plugin
* run-app - Runs a Grails application
* run-command - Executes Grails commands
* run-script - Executes Groovy scripts in a Grails context
* shell - Runs the Grails interactive shell
* stats - Prints statistics about the project
* stop-app - Stops the running Grails application
* test-app - Runs the applications tests

Provided Features:
--------------------
* asset-pipeline - Adds Asset Pipeline to a Grails project
* hibernate4 - Adds GORM for Hibernate 4 to the project
* hibernate5 - Adds GORM for Hibernate 5 to the project
* json-views - Adds support for JSON Views to the project
* less-asset-pipeline - Adds LESS Transpiler Asset Pipeline to a Grails project
* markup-views - Adds support for Markup Views to the project
* mongodb - Adds GORM for MongoDB to the project
* neo4j - Adds GORM for Neo4j to the project
* rx-mongodb - Adds RxGORM for MongoDB to the project
* asset-pipeline-plugin - Adds Asset Pipeline to a Grails Plugin for packaging
----

include::{commondir}/common-tipDefaultProfile.adoc[]

Commit message:

Note on using grails list-profiles
I've added a note on the need to call `grails list-profiles` from outside of the newly created Grails project for clarity.  

I like to go through the guides listed on the site from time to time as a refresher as I don't use Grails day-to-day, and always find myself confused when I run `grails list-profiles`  and receive the following error message:

```bash
| Error Command not found list-profiles
Did you mean: list-plugins or test or test-app?
```
The error occurs because profiles are really only needed when creating new Grails projects and can't be listed from within a Grails directory.  I feel that adding a note on this would help prevent new users from becoming confused if they see the error I've listed above.

src/main/docs/guide/applicationProfile.adoc, after:


You can optionally specify a http://docs.grails.org/latest/guide/profiles.html[Profile] for your Grails app. Profiles are available for many common application types, including `rest-api`, `angular`, `react`, and others, and you can even create your own.

To view of a list of what profiles are available, use the http://docs.grails.org/latest/ref/Command%20Line/list-profiles.html[`list-profiles`] command.  *Please note this command must be run from outside of the directory for the Grails project you created in the last step.*

[source, bash]
----
$ grails list-profiles

| Available Profiles
--------------------
* angular - A profile for creating applications using AngularJS
* rest-api - Profile for REST API applications
* base - The base profile extended by other profiles
* angular2 - A profile for creating Grails applications with Angular 2
* plugin - Profile for plugins designed to work across all profiles
* profile - A profile for creating new Grails profiles
* react - A profile for creating Grails applications with a React frontend
* rest-api-plugin - Profile for REST API plugins
* web - Profile for Web applications
* web-plugin - Profile for Plugins designed for Web applications
* webpack - A profile for creating applications with node-based frontends using webpack
----

To use a profile, specify its name preceded by the `-profile` flag:

[source, bash]
----
grails create-app myApp -profile rest-api
----

You may optionally specify a package and version (defaults to `org.grails.profiles` and the current version of the profile)

[source, bash]
----
grails create-app myApp -profile org.grails.profiles:react:1.0.2
----

To get detailed information about a profile use the http://docs.grails.org/latest/ref/Command%20Line/profile-info.html[`profile-info`] command.

[source, bash]
----
$ grails profile-info plugin

Profile: plugin
--------------------
Profile for plugins designed to work across all profiles

Provided Commands:
--------------------
| Error Error occurred loading commands: grails.dev.commands.ApplicationContextCommandRegistry (Use --stacktrace to see the full trace)
| Error Error occurred loading commands: grails.dev.commands.ApplicationContextCommandRegistry (Use --stacktrace to see the full trace)
* package-plugin - Packages the plugin into a JAR file
* publish-plugin - Publishes the plugin to the Grails central repository
* help - Prints help information for a specific command
* open - Opens a file in the project
* gradle - Allows running of Gradle tasks
* clean - Cleans a Grails application's compiled sources
* compile - Compiles a Grails application
* create-command - Creates an Application Command
* create-domain-class - Creates a Domain Class
* create-service - Creates a Service
* create-unit-test - Creates a unit test
* install - Installs a Grails application or plugin into the local Maven cache
* assemble - Creates a JAR or WAR archive for production deployment
* bug-report - Creates a zip file that can be attached to issue reports for the current project
* console - Runs the Grails interactive console
* create-script - Creates a Grails script
* dependency-report - Prints out the Grails application's dependencies
* list-plugins - Lists available plugins from the Plugin Repository
* plugin-info - Prints information about the given plugin
* run-app - Runs a Grails application
* run-command - Executes Grails commands
* run-script - Executes Groovy scripts in a Grails context
* shell - Runs the Grails interactive shell
* stats - Prints statistics about the project
* stop-app - Stops the running Grails application
* test-app - Runs the applications tests

Provided Features:
--------------------
* asset-pipeline - Adds Asset Pipeline to a Grails project
* hibernate4 - Adds GORM for Hibernate 4 to the project
* hibernate5 - Adds GORM for Hibernate 5 to the project
* json-views - Adds support for JSON Views to the project
* less-asset-pipeline - Adds LESS Transpiler Asset Pipeline to a Grails project
* markup-views - Adds support for Markup Views to the project
* mongodb - Adds GORM for MongoDB to the project
* neo4j - Adds GORM for Neo4j to the project
* rx-mongodb - Adds RxGORM for MongoDB to the project
* asset-pipeline-plugin - Adds Asset Pipeline to a Grails Plugin for packaging
----

include::{commondir}/common-tipDefaultProfile.adoc[]
