src/main/docs/guide/domainClasses.adoc, before:

== MVC

Grails is an https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller[Model View Controller] (MVC) framework, based upon the Spring Boot project. Typically an MVC application divides the responsibilities of the app into three categories:

1. Model - code that defines and manages the data
2. View - code that manages the presentation of data (e.g, HTML page)
3. Controller - code that defines the business logic of the application, and manages the transfer of data between the model and the view

Typically an object-oriented MVC framework requires the developer to configure which classes correspond to each of the three categories above. However, Grails goes farther than most frameworks by following a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Convention_over_configuration["Convention over Configuration"] approach to development. This means that for many artefact types in Grails (controllers, views, etc), you simply create a file in a particular directory in your project, and Grails will automatically wire it into your application without any additional configuration on your part.

TIP: Handling the mapping of domain classes to database tables (and other persistent stores) is the job of http://gorm.grails.org/latest/[GORM], the Grails Object Relational Mapper. GORM is a powerful tool in the Grails framework, and can even be used standalone outside of a Grails project. It supports relational databases (via Hibernate) as well as MongoDb, Neo4j, Redis and Cassandra datasources. Please see the http://gorm.grails.org/latest/hibernate/manual/index.html[GORM documentation] for more information.

When building a MVC application, it is typical to start with the "M" (Model), also known as the "Domain model". In Grails, your domain model is defined with Groovy classes under `grails-app/domain`. Let's create a domain class.

Domain classes can be generated by Grails (in which case Grails will helpfully create a unit test automatically), or you can simply create the file yourself.

[source, bash]
----
$ ./grailsw create-domain-class com.example.Vehicle

| Created grails-app/domain/com/example/Vehicle.groovy
| Created src/test/groovy/com/example/VehicleSpec.groovy
----

This will generate two Groovy files, one being our domain class, and the other a unit test. Let's see what our domain class looks like.

[source, groovy]
----
package com.example

class Vehicle {

    static constraints = {
    }
}
----

Right now our domain class has no properties, and no constraints. That's not very interesting, but it's worth noting that this is all that's needed to wire up a persistent domain class in our application. By default, Hibernate will be used to configure a datasource (an in-memory H2 database by default) and create tables and associations for all Groovy classes under `grails-app/domain`. Let's add some properties to this domain class:

[source, groovy]
----
package com.example

class Vehicle {

    String name //<1>

    String make
    String model

    static constraints = {
        name maxSize: 255  //<2>
        make inList: ['Ford', 'Chevrolet', 'Nissan']
        model nullable: true
    }
}
----
<1> Properties will be used to create columns in the database (assuming a relational database is used)
<2> Constraints will be used to enforce valid data in each field

Please see the Grails documentation for a complete list and documentation of how to use https://docs.grails.org/latest/ref/Domain%20Classes/Usage.html[domain classes] and https://docs.grails.org/latest/ref/Constraints/Usage.html[constraints]

== DB Console

If you run the app again, you should see the same page as before. However, you can login to the DB Console and view your new database table.

Browse to `http://localhost:8080/dbconsole` and login. The default username is `sa`, without a password. The default JDBC URL is: `jdbc:h2:mem:devDb;MVCC=TRUE;LOCK_TIMEOUT=10000;DB_CLOSE_ON_EXIT=FALSE`

image::{commondir}/guide/images/dbconsole.png[DBConsole]

NOTE: You can view the JDBC url in `application.yml`, under `environments` `development` `dataSource` `url`

Once you've logged in to the DB Console, you should see your new `VEHICLES` table in the left-hand sidebar. Click the `+` icon to expand the table - you should see a list of columns, including the three `String` fields we just defined, `name`, `make,` and `model`.

image::{commondir}/guide/images/dbconsole-2.png[DBConsole]

== Expand the Domain Model

For our `Vehicle` class, it doesn't really make sense that `make` and `model` are plain Strings, since models should actually be associated with makes. Let's update our domain model to be more robust.

Create two new domain classes:


[source, bash]
----
$ ./grailsw create-domain-class com.example.Make

| Created grails-app/domain/com/example/Make.groovy
| Created src/test/groovy/com/example/Make.groovy

$ ./grailsw create-domain-class com.example.Model

| Created grails-app/domain/com/example/Model.groovy
| Created src/test/groovy/com/example/Model.groovy
----

Edit these two files with the following content:

[source,groovy]
.grails-app/domain/com/example/Make.groovy
----
include::{sourceDir}/grails-app/domain/com/example/Make.groovy[]
----

[source,groovy]
.grails-app/domain/com/example/Model.groovy
----
include::{sourceDir}/grails-app/domain/com/example/Model.groovy[]
----

Now, update `Vehicle.groovy` to use the new `Make` and `Model` classes instead of `String`.

[source,groovy]
.grails-app/domain/com/example/Vehicle.groovy
----
package com.example

class Vehicle {

    String name
    Model model <1>

    Make getMake() {  <2>
        model.make
    }

    static constraints = {
        name maxSize: 255
    }
}

----
<1> Replace the `String model` with our new `Model` class.
<2> Replace `String make` with a `getMake` instance method which returns the `Make` property of our `Model`

[NOTE]
====
Because `Model` is associated with `Make`, we don't need to persist the `Make` in our `Vehicle` class (and duplicate the data). Instead, we can define a custom "getter" method which returns the `Make` from the `Model` association. Because Groovy allows property (dot) access to getter methods, we can now write the following code:

[source, groovy]
----
def vehicle = Vehicle.findByName('pickup')
if(vehicle) {
    println vehicle.model // e.g, 'Titan'
    println vehicle.make // e.g, 'Nissan'
}
----

====

Grails (via GORM) will now create three tables in our database, for our three domain classes, and create the necessary associations between the tables. Run the app again and open the DB Console to view the new tables.

== BootStrap

Every Grails project includes a `BootStrap.groovy` file under `grails-app/init`. This file can be used for any custom logic you want to happen during application startup. One excellent use of the file is to preload some data in our database. Let's create a few instances of our three domain classes.

Edit `grails-app/init/BootStrap.groovy`, as shown below:

[source,groovy]
.grails-app/domain/com/example/Make.groovy
----
include::{sourceDir}/grails-app/init/creating/a/grails/application/BootStrap.groovy[]
----

Now restart the application, and browse to the DBConsole, you should be able to expand the three tables and see our newly created data.


== Datasource configuration
By default, Grails configures an in-memory H2 database, which is dropped and recreated every time the app is restarted. This will be sufficient for our purposes in this guide, however, you can easily change this to a local database instance by configuring your own datasource. We'll use MySQL as an example.

Edit `build.gradle`

[source,groovy]
.build.gradle
----
dependencies {
    //...

    runtime 'mysql:mysql-connector-java:5.1.40' <1>
----
<1> Add the MySQL JDBC driver as a dependency

WARNING: Be sure to add the MySQL dependency to the `dependencies` section of the `build.gradle` file, and not the `buildscript`/`dependencies` section. The former is for application dependencies (needed for at compile time, runtime, or testing), whereas the `buildscript` `dependencies` is for those needed as part of the Gradle build process (managing static assets, for example).

Edit `application.yml`

[source,yml]
.grails-app/conf/application.yml
----
dataSource:
    pooled: true
    jmxExport: true
    driverClassName: com.mysql.jdbc.Driver   <1>
    dialect: org.hibernate.dialect.MySQL5InnoDBDialect
    username: sa
    password: testing
environments:
    development:
        dataSource:
            dbCreate: update
            url: jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1:3306/myapp <2>
----
<1> Change the `driverClassName` and `dialect` to MySQL settings
<2> This assumes you have a local MySQL instance with a database named `myapp`

Commit message:

First draft of domain class section

src/main/docs/guide/domainClasses.adoc, after:

== MVC

Grails is an https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller[Model View Controller] (MVC) framework, based upon the Spring Boot project. Typically an MVC application divides the responsibilities of the app into three categories:

1. Model - code that defines and manages the data
2. View - code that manages the presentation of data (e.g, HTML page)
3. Controller - code that defines the business logic of the application, and manages the transfer of data between the model and the view

Typically an object-oriented MVC framework requires the developer to configure which classes correspond to each of the three categories above. However, Grails goes farther than most frameworks by following a https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Convention_over_configuration["Convention over Configuration"] approach to development. This means that for many artefact types in Grails (controllers, views, etc), you simply create a file in a particular directory in your project, and Grails will automatically wire it into your application without any additional configuration on your part.

TIP: Handling the mapping of domain classes to database tables (and other persistent stores) is the job of http://gorm.grails.org/latest/[GORM], the Grails Object Relational Mapper. GORM is a powerful tool in the Grails framework, and can even be used standalone outside of a Grails project. It supports relational databases (via Hibernate) as well as MongoDb, Neo4j, Redis and Cassandra datasources. Please see the http://gorm.grails.org/latest/hibernate/manual/index.html[GORM documentation] for more information.

When building a MVC application, it is typical to start with the "M" (Model), also known as the "Domain model". In Grails, your domain model is defined with Groovy classes under `grails-app/domain`. Let's create a domain class.

Domain classes can be generated by Grails (in which case Grails will helpfully create a unit test automatically), or you can simply create the file yourself.

[source, bash]
----
$ ./grailsw create-domain-class com.example.Vehicle

| Created grails-app/domain/com/example/Vehicle.groovy
| Created src/test/groovy/com/example/VehicleSpec.groovy
----

This will generate two Groovy files, one being our domain class, and the other a unit test. Let's see what our domain class looks like.

[source, groovy]
----
package com.example

class Vehicle {

    static constraints = {
    }
}
----

Right now our domain class has no properties, and no constraints. That's not very interesting, but it's worth noting that this is all that's needed to wire up a persistent domain class in our application. By default, Hibernate will be used to configure a datasource (an in-memory H2 database by default) and create tables and associations for all Groovy classes under `grails-app/domain`. Let's add some properties to this domain class:

[source, groovy]
----
package com.example

class Vehicle {

    String name //<1>

    String make
    String model

    static constraints = {
        name maxSize: 255  //<2>
        make inList: ['Ford', 'Chevrolet', 'Nissan']
        model nullable: true
    }
}
----
<1> Properties will be used to create columns in the database (assuming a relational database is used)
<2> Constraints will be used to enforce valid data in each field

Please see the Grails documentation for a complete list and documentation of how to use https://docs.grails.org/latest/ref/Domain%20Classes/Usage.html[domain classes] and https://docs.grails.org/latest/ref/Constraints/Usage.html[constraints]

== DB Console

If you run the app again, you should see the same page as before. However, you can login to the DB Console and view your new database table.

Browse to `http://localhost:8080/dbconsole` and login. The default username is `sa`, without a password. The default JDBC URL is: `jdbc:h2:mem:devDb;MVCC=TRUE;LOCK_TIMEOUT=10000;DB_CLOSE_ON_EXIT=FALSE`

image::{commondir}/guide/images/dbconsole.png[DBConsole]

{commondir}/guide/images/dbconsole.png

NOTE: You can view the JDBC url in `application.yml`, under `environments` `development` `dataSource` `url`

Once you've logged in to the DB Console, you should see your new `VEHICLES` table in the left-hand sidebar. Click the `+` icon to expand the table - you should see a list of columns, including the three `String` fields we just defined, `name`, `make,` and `model`.

image::{commondir}/guide/images/dbconsole-2.png[DBConsole]

== Expand the Domain Model

For our `Vehicle` class, it doesn't really make sense that `make` and `model` are plain Strings, since models should actually be associated with makes. Let's update our domain model to be more robust.

Create two new domain classes:


[source, bash]
----
$ ./grailsw create-domain-class com.example.Make

| Created grails-app/domain/com/example/Make.groovy
| Created src/test/groovy/com/example/Make.groovy

$ ./grailsw create-domain-class com.example.Model

| Created grails-app/domain/com/example/Model.groovy
| Created src/test/groovy/com/example/Model.groovy
----

Edit these two files with the following content:

[source,groovy]
.grails-app/domain/com/example/Make.groovy
----
include::{sourceDir}/grails-app/domain/com/example/Make.groovy[]
----

[source,groovy]
.grails-app/domain/com/example/Model.groovy
----
include::{sourceDir}/grails-app/domain/com/example/Model.groovy[]
----

NOTE: The `belongsTo` property is one of several properties that GORM uses to determine associations between domain classes. Others include `hasMany` and `hasOne`. For more information please see the http://gorm.grails.org/6.0.x/hibernate/manual/#gormAssociation[GORM documentation].

Now, update `Vehicle.groovy` to use the new `Make` and `Model` classes instead of `String`.

[source,groovy]
.grails-app/domain/com/example/Vehicle.groovy
----
include::{sourceDir}/grails-app/domain/com/example/Vehicle.groovy[]
----

[source, groovy]
----
def vehicle = Vehicle.findByName('pickup')
if(vehicle) {
    println vehicle.model // e.g, 'Titan'
    println vehicle.make // e.g, 'Nissan'
}
----

Grails (via GORM) will now create three tables in our database, for our three domain classes, and create the necessary associations between the tables. Run the app again and open the DB Console to view the new tables.

== BootStrap

Every Grails project includes a `BootStrap.groovy` file under `grails-app/init`. This file can be used for any custom logic you want to happen during application startup. One excellent use of the file is to preload some data in our database. Let's create a few instances of our three domain classes.

Edit `grails-app/init/BootStrap.groovy`, as shown below:

[source,groovy]
.grails-app/domain/com/example/Make.groovy
----
include::{sourceDir}/grails-app/init/creating/a/grails/application/BootStrap.groovy[]
----

Now restart the application, and browse to the DBConsole, you should be able to expand the three tables and see our newly created data.


== Datasource configuration
By default, Grails configures an in-memory H2 database, which is dropped and recreated every time the app is restarted. This will be sufficient for our purposes in this guide, however, you can easily change this to a local database instance by configuring your own datasource. We'll use MySQL as an example.

Edit `build.gradle`

[source,groovy]
.build.gradle
----
dependencies {
    //...

    runtime 'mysql:mysql-connector-java:5.1.40' <1>
----
<1> Add the MySQL JDBC driver as a dependency

WARNING: Be sure to add the MySQL dependency to the `dependencies` section of the `build.gradle` file, and not the `buildscript`/`dependencies` section. The former is for application dependencies (needed for at compile time, runtime, or testing), whereas the `buildscript` `dependencies` is for those needed as part of the Gradle build process (managing static assets, for example).

Edit `application.yml`

[source,yml]
.grails-app/conf/application.yml
----
dataSource:
    pooled: true
    jmxExport: true
    driverClassName: com.mysql.jdbc.Driver   <1>
    dialect: org.hibernate.dialect.MySQL5InnoDBDialect
    username: sa
    password: testing
environments:
    development:
        dataSource:
            dbCreate: update
            url: jdbc:mysql://127.0.0.1:3306/myapp <2>
----
<1> Change the `driverClassName` and `dialect` to MySQL settings
<2> This assumes you have a local MySQL instance with a database named `myapp`



== Driving our Domain Model

Right now we don't have any controllers or views set up to play with our domain model. We'll get there shortly, but for now, let's fire up the http://docs.grails.org/latest/ref/Command%20Line/console.html[Grails Console] so we can explore what Grails and GORM have to offer.

If the application is still running, shut it down with either kbd:[Ctrl+C], or (if running Grails in http://docs.grails.org/latest/guide/commandLine.html#interactiveMode[Interactive Mode], the `stop-app` command.

Launch the Grails Console:

[source, bash]
----
$ ./grailsw console
----

The Grails Console application will launch. This application is based on the http://groovy-lang.org/groovyconsole.html[Groovy Console], but has the added benefit that our entire Grails application is up and running in the background, so we can access our domain classes and even persist to the database from the Console.

Try playing with our new domain model from the Console. Here's a simple script to get you started - again, refer to the http://gorm.grails.org/6.0.x/hibernate/manual[GORM documentation] for more details on querying, persistence, configuration and more.

[source,groovy]
.docs/console.groovy
----
include::{sourceDir}/docs/console.groovy[]
----
