src/main/docs/guide/runningTheApp.adoc, before:

Now that you've created (or downloaded) your Grails project, it's time to run it and see what Grails has already given you.

If you have a local installation of Grails, you can run the app using the http://docs.grails.org/latest/ref/Command%20Line/run-app.html[run-app] command from within your project:

[source, bash]
----
$ cd myApp/
----

### Run the App without Grails Installed
Thanks to the http://docs.grails.org/latest/guide/introduction.html#whatsNewGrailsWrapper[Grails Wrapper], as of Grails version 3.2.3 or later, you can run any Grails command without having
Grails installed. If you download it from the http://start.grails.org[Grails Application Forge], the Grails Wrapper is included too.

[source, bash]
----
$ ./grailsw run-app
----

### Run the App with Grails installed

If you have Grails installed in your machine, simply type:

[source, bash]
----
$ grails run-app
----

### Run the App with Grails Interactive Mode

You can also use Grails' http://docs.grails.org/latest/guide/commandLine.html#interactiveMode[Interactive Mode] to run the Grails runtime,
from which you can issue any Grails command without waiting for the runtime to spin up for each task.
In this guide we will be preferring the Grails wrapper for most commands.

[source, bash]
----
$ ./grailsw

| Enter a command name to run. Use TAB for completion:
grails>run-app      //you can shutdown the app with the stop-app command
----

### Run the App with Gradle

Finally, because Grails is built upon https://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/[Spring Boot] and https://gradle.org/[Gradle], you can also use Spring Boot commands like `bootRun` to interact with your Grails application. Like for Grails you do not have to download and install Gradle, this will happen automatically using the the Gradle Wrapper (`gradlew`)

[source, bash]
----
$ ./gradlew bootRun
----

Once you've run any of those commands, Grails will launch your application using an embedded Tomcat server, and make it available (by default) at `http://localhost:8080`.

[source, bash]
----
$ ./grailsw run-app

| Running application...
Grails application running at http://localhost:8080 in environment: development
----

If you'd like to change the port number, simply edit the `application.yml` file under `grails-app/conf/`, and add the following line:

[source, yml]
----
server:
    port: 8090
----

Currently the app simply displays a default index page with some information about the application. The default index page is located under `grails-app/views/index.gsp`.

Go ahead and edit that file, and change some thing on the page, as shown below (line 54):

[source, xml]
----
    <div id="content" role="main">
        <section class="row colset-2-its">
            <h1>Welcome to My First Grails Project</h1>  <1>
----
<1> Change the text of the `<h1>` tag.

Save your changes and refresh the page in the browser. You should see your change on the home page. Grails will auto-reload changes to views, controllers, domain classes and other artefacts when it detects changes, so you don't need to restart the app upon every change.

WARNING: Major changes to domain class associations, renaming classes, and other operations that affect the "wiring" of the application may not successfully reload.

Commit message:

Add a paragraph about passing the port number in the command

src/main/docs/guide/runningTheApp.adoc, after:

Now that you've created (or downloaded) your Grails project, it's time to run it and see what Grails has already given you.

If you have a local installation of Grails, you can run the app using the http://docs.grails.org/latest/ref/Command%20Line/run-app.html[run-app] command from within your project:

[source, bash]
----
$ cd myApp/
----

### Run the App without Grails Installed
Thanks to the http://docs.grails.org/latest/guide/introduction.html#whatsNewGrailsWrapper[Grails Wrapper], as of Grails version 3.2.3 or later, you can run any Grails command without having
Grails installed. If you download it from the http://start.grails.org[Grails Application Forge], the Grails Wrapper is included too.

[source, bash]
----
$ ./grailsw run-app
----

### Run the App with Grails installed

If you have Grails installed in your machine, simply type:

[source, bash]
----
$ grails run-app
----

### Run the App with Grails Interactive Mode

You can also use Grails' http://docs.grails.org/latest/guide/commandLine.html#interactiveMode[Interactive Mode] to run the Grails runtime,
from which you can issue any Grails command without waiting for the runtime to spin up for each task.
In this guide we will be preferring the Grails wrapper for most commands.

[source, bash]
----
$ ./grailsw

| Enter a command name to run. Use TAB for completion:
grails>run-app      //you can shutdown the app with the stop-app command
----

### Run the App with Gradle

Finally, because Grails is built upon https://projects.spring.io/spring-boot/[Spring Boot] and https://gradle.org/[Gradle], you can also use Spring Boot commands like `bootRun` to interact with your Grails application. Like for Grails you do not have to download and install Gradle, this will happen automatically using the the Gradle Wrapper (`gradlew`)

[source, bash]
----
$ ./gradlew bootRun
----

Once you've run any of those commands, Grails will launch your application using an embedded Tomcat server, and make it available (by default) at `http://localhost:8080`.

[source, bash]
----
$ ./grailsw run-app

| Running application...
Grails application running at http://localhost:8080 in environment: development
----

If you'd like to change the port number, simply edit the `application.yml` file under `grails-app/conf/`, and add the following line:

[source, yml]
----
server:
    port: 8090
----

You can supply the port number directly in the command invocation:

[source, bash]
----
$ ./grailsw run-app --port=8090

| Running application...
Grails application running at http://localhost:8090 in environment: development
----

Currently the app simply displays a default index page with some information about the application. The default index page is located under `grails-app/views/index.gsp`.

Go ahead and edit that file, and change some thing on the page, as shown below (line 54):

[source, xml]
----
    <div id="content" role="main">
        <section class="row colset-2-its">
            <h1>Welcome to My First Grails Project</h1>  <1>
----
<1> Change the text of the `<h1>` tag.

Save your changes and refresh the page in the browser. You should see your change on the home page. Grails will auto-reload changes to views, controllers, domain classes and other artefacts when it detects changes, so you don't need to restart the app upon every change.

WARNING: Major changes to domain class associations, renaming classes, and other operations that affect the "wiring" of the application may not successfully reload.
